let's bring in Daniel Levy he's the
president of the US Middle East project
he's also a former Israeli political
negotiator joining us from London thanks
for your time once again so um I mean it
it's really is a numbers game right now
right when it comes to the release of
the hostages uh from Gaza so at what
point is it going to become real
difficult to negotiate these extensions
that we're
seeing well indeed darene there are a
number of variables and the one that
appears to be pushing against the time
clock most immediately is that the
formula that
exists relates to uh women
non-combatants children elderly um who
are being held in
Gaza that
category seems to be being exhausted so
to speak there will have to be a new
package negotiated if one is is going to
move to these other categories can one
do that in time to extend this sensation
without getting back into what you have
just reminded us is the intention of the
Israeli political and Military
leadership to resume its allout assault
on
Gaza they are being clear that that's
where they want to go there are other
pressures that exist because if that
resumes then the death destruction
Devastation we can anticipate will
happen again the Americans are
apparently saying hey we're with you on
you continuing your military Mission but
can you do it differently that sounds
like a disingenuous position to me
because why would anyone have faith that
Israel will do this differently and
Israel has given no one any reason to
believe that you will not return to the
absolutely horrendous civilian
casualties plus we now have the effect
of the devastation already which is the
humanitarian crisis you heard what Dr
kados from the who has has warned us
about disease sanitation water the
conditions now are so
dire look this idea Daniel Levy of all
for all this is something that we heard
at the beginning of the the war Hamas
said we'll give you all your captives in
Gaza give us all our Palestinian
prisoners in jail
do you think that this is an idea that
Israel is even willing to entertain at
this point or can it be pressured into
it either domestically or
internationally it's an important
variable what you just raised for us
darene
this idea of all for all uh is being
discussed it's actually polling
surprisingly highly I haven't got the
numbers in front of me
amongst
Israelis I don't know if that's where we
will go I don't think that's the
immediate Next Step dur but also we we
have to consider that on the Israeli
side at the moment at least the
political and Military leadership are
saying well even if we go there we're
still going to continue the military
operation so I think what would have to
be embedded in any kind of package and
Hamas understands that the soldiers is
is holding are the the high value levers
in terms of a negotiation deal but it
would have to include some kind of end
decisive end to the Israeli phase of
this kind of military bombardment and
then the question becomes exactly as you
suggested what is the balance of
internal and external pressure that
might get us there the internal pressure
pressure has been very significant in
forcing and I I use that word
intentionally in forcing the Israeli
political leadership to accept even
these last several days of release and
cessation because that deal was on the
table before the ground Invasion that
deal has pretty much been on the table
for weeks and it was rejected until the
internal pressure was sufficient but
only a combination of internal and
external pressure will get us to a
permanent cessation uh Daniel leave you
so just tell me what you see happening
in the next it's less than 24 hours now
before that ceasefire uh extension
expires so what do you think we'll see
tomorrow I I I'm not going to look into
my crystal ball because I don't have one
but we do have secretary blinken in the
region I think that perhaps gives some
more breathing space we do have ideas
out there we do have the continued
Cuttery
mediation we may already have run out of
Road my fear is that whether it's
tomorrow or in the next 48 72 96 hours
we are going to run out of Road in this
current iteration and we need something
to tide us over so we don't go now to
see in South Gaza where so many people
have been forced yet more civilian death
as a result of his ir bombardment and I
don't see and here's the thing I don't
see how that happens without a
very active American intervention to
draw a line under this and right now the
Biden Administration is pretending that
it can have uh support for an Israeli
Mission which doesn't cause those
devastating consequences on the civilian
population they will have to shift that
position and and this is crucial Dar
they will have to create a situation
where by the gap between what they are
saying to the isra in private and what
they are saying in public is not so
great that Israel can play in that space
and can bamboozle and basically do what
it wants with the Americans okay
unfortunately we will need both them and
perhaps others including in the region
to make sure that we don't get back to
the horrors of of what we've seen okay
we'll leave it there Daniel Le we thank
you so much for speaking to us from
London thank you